feat: expressjs framework (#784)
canonical/rockcraft: docs/tutorial/expressjs.rst

Open ``rockcraft.yaml`` in a text editor and check that the ``name``
key is set to ``expressjs-hello-world``. Ensure that ``platforms`` includes
the architecture of the host. For example, if the host uses the ARM
architecture, include ``arm64`` in ``platforms``.

As the ``expressjs-framework`` extension is still experimental, export the
environment variable ``ROCKCRAFT_ENABLE_EXPERIMENTAL_EXTENSIONS``:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:experimental]
    :end-before: [docs:experimental-end]
    :dedent: 2

Pack the rock:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:pack]
    :end-before: [docs:pack-end]
    :dedent: 2

Depending on the network, this step can take a couple of minutes to finish.

Once Rockcraft has finished packing the Go rock, we'll find a new file in
the working directory (an `OCI <OCI_image_spec_>`_ image) with the ``.rock``
extension:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:ls-rock]
    :end-before: [docs:ls-rock-end]
    :dedent: 2

Run the ExpressJS rock with Docker
==================================

> We already have the rock as an OCI archive. Load the image into Docker:

Reviewer: > OCI archive

We used "image" in the previous section. Should they both be "image"?

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:skopeo-copy]
    :end-before: [docs:skopeo-copy-end]
    :dedent: 2

Check that the image was successfully loaded into Docker:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:docker-images]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-images-end]
    :dedent: 2

> The output should list the Go container image, along with its tag, ID and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output should list the Go container, along with its tag, ID and
```

As far as I know, images become containers when run.

size:

.. terminal::

    REPOSITORY              TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED       SIZE
    expressjs-hello-world   0.1       30c7e5aed202   2 weeks ago   304MB

Now we're finally ready to run the rock and test the containerised ExpressJS
application:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:docker-run]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-run-end]
    :dedent: 2

> Use the same ``curl`` command as before to send a request to the ExpressJS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the same curl command as before to send a request to the ExpressJS
```

respective image for now:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:stop-docker]
    :end-before: [docs:stop-docker-end]
    :dedent: 2

Update the ExpressJS application
================================

For our final task, let's update our application. As an example,
let's add a new ``/time`` endpoint that returns the current time.

Start by creating the ``app/routes/time.js`` file in a text editor and paste the
code from the snippet below:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/time.js
    :caption: time.js
    :language: javascript

Place the code snippet below in ``app/app.js`` under routes registration section
along with other ``app.use(...)`` lines.
It will register the new ``/time`` endpoint:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/time_app.js
    :caption: app.js
    :language: javascript
    :start-after: [docs:append-lines]
    :end-before: [docs:append-lines-end]

Since we are creating a new version of the application, set
``version: '0.2'`` in the project file.

Pack and run the rock using similar commands as before:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml

>     :language: text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :language: bash
```

    :start-after: [docs:docker-run-update]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-run-update-end]
    :dedent: 2

The resulting ``.rock`` file will be named differently, as
its new version will be part of the filename.

Finally, use curl to send a request to the ``/time`` endpoint:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml

>     :language: text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :language: bash
```

    :dedent: 2

The created rock is about 100MB in size. We will reduce its size later in this
tutorial.

.. note::
    If we changed the ``name`` or ``version`` in ``rockcraft.yaml`` or are not
    on an ``amd64`` platform, the name of the ``.rock`` file will be
    different.

    The size of the rock may vary depending on factors like the architecture
    we are building on and the packages installed at the time of packing.

Run the ExpressJS rock with Docker
==================================

We already have the rock as an `OCI <OCI_image_spec_>`_ archive. Now we
need to load it into Docker:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:skopeo-copy]
    :end-before: [docs:skopeo-copy-end]
    :dedent: 2

Check that the image was successfully loaded into Docker:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:docker-images]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-images-end]
    :dedent: 2

The output should list the ExpressJS container image, along with its tag, ID and
size:

..  code-block:: text
    :class: log-snippets

    REPOSITORY              TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED       SIZE

>     expressjs-hello-world   0.1       30c7e5aed202   2 weeks ago   304MB

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: Another option for this code block would be to use the `.. terminal::` directive.

Reviewer 2: Hey! You can find more information here: https://canonical-documentation-with-sphinx-and-readthedocscom.readthedocs-hosted.com/style-guide/#terminal-output

For the above snippet, the change would look like

```
.. terminal::

    REPOSITORY              TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED       SIZE
    expressjs-hello-world   0.1       30c7e5aed202   2 weeks ago   304MB
```

Author: Thank you! Updated all other documentation to match this styling :)

.. note::
    The size of the image reported by Docker is the uncompressed size which is
    larger than the size of the compressed ``.rock`` file.

Now we're finally ready to run the rock and test the containerised ExpressJS
application:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:docker-run]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-run-end]
    :dedent: 2

Use the same ``curl`` command as before to send a request to the ExpressJS
application's root endpoint which is running inside the container:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:curl-expressjs-rock]
    :end-before: [docs:curl-expressjs-rock-end]
    :dedent: 2

The ExpressJS application should again respond with the ``Welcome to Express``
HTML.

View the application logs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When deploying the ExpressJS rock, we can always get the application logs via

> ``pebble``:

Author: Updated along with all other tutorials that use the same sentence, thank you!

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:get-logs]
    :end-before: [docs:get-logs-end]
    :dedent: 2

As a result, :ref:`pebble_explanation_page` will give us the logs for the
``expressjs`` service running inside the container.
We should expect to see something similar to this:

..  code-block:: text
    :class: log-snippets

    app@0.0.0 start
    node ./bin/www

>     GET / 200 62.934 ms - 170

Reviewer 2: Another place where `.. terminal::` might be good to use

in size! And that's just because of the simple change of ``base``.

And the functionality is still the same. As before, we can confirm this by
running the rock with Docker

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:docker-run-chisel]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-run-chisel-end]
    :dedent: 2

and then using the same ``curl`` request:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:curl-expressjs-bare-rock]
    :end-before: [docs:curl-expressjs-bare-rock-end]
    :dedent: 2

Unsurprisingly, the ExpressJS application should still respond with
``Welcome to Express`` HTML.

Cleanup
~~~~~~~

And that's it. We can now stop the container and remove the corresponding
image:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:stop-docker-chisel]
    :end-before: [docs:stop-docker-chisel-end]
    :dedent: 2

.. _update-expressjs-application:

Update the ExpressJS application
================================

As a final step, let's update our application. For example,
we want to add a new ``/time`` endpoint which returns the current time.

> Start by opening the ``time.js`` file in a text editor and update the code to

Reviewer 2: For my understanding, did the `time.js` file exist prior to this step, or does this step create the `time.js` file? 

I ask because, if the user is creating the file in this step, then I think this sentence should start with "Start by creating the ``time.js`` file using a text editor..."

look like the following:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/time.js
    :language: python

Place ``time.js`` file into the appropriate ``routes/`` directory. Import the
time route from the the main ``app.js`` file and update the code to look like
the following:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/app.js
    :language: javascript

Notice the addition of timerouter import and the registration of the ``/time``

> endpoint.

Reviewer 2: Along with this notice, you can also use `emphasize-lines` to highlight the specific lines that the user should pay attention to. I may not have the exact lines that you would like to highlight, but perhaps the literalinclude would look something like

```
.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/app.js
    :language: javascript
    :emphasize-lines: 9,25
```

Author: that is pretty cool, thanks!

file and change the ``version`` (e.g. to ``0.1-chiselled``). Pack the rock with
the new ``bare`` :ref:`base <bases_explanation>`:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:chisel-pack]
    :end-before: [docs:chisel-pack-end]
    :dedent: 2

As before, verify that the new rock was created:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:ls-bare-rock]
    :end-before: [docs:ls-bare-rock-end]
    :dedent: 2

We'll verify that the new ExpressJS rock is now approximately **15% smaller**
in size! And that's just because of the simple change of ``base``.

And the functionality is still the same. As before, we can confirm this by
running the rock with Docker

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:docker-run-chisel]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-run-chisel-end]
    :dedent: 2

and then using the same ``curl`` request:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:curl-expressjs-bare-rock]
    :end-before: [docs:curl-expressjs-bare-rock-end]
    :dedent: 2

> Unsurprisingly, the ExpressJS application should still respond with

Reviewer 2: Apologies for my missing of this message until now! 

Personally I think we can remove "Unsurprisingly" -- I feel like it's a bit unnecessary. I do think it's a fair point that some users may be surprised that everything still works the same, so I don't have a strong opinion about whether we include "Unsurprisingly" here or not. It's a personal preference. 

@medubelko may have a different opinion -- feel free to weigh in if you have any thoughts!

> Unsurprisingly, the ExpressJS application should still respond with

Author: Removed the vocab "Unsurprisingly" for now - it should now be surprising! (just kidding, it sounds very neutral without it now :) )

.. _build-a-rock-for-an-expressjs-application:

Build a rock for an ExpressJS application
-----------------------------------------

In this tutorial, we'll create a simple ExpressJS application and learn how to
containerise it in a rock with Rockcraft's
:ref:`expressjs-framework <expressjs-framework-reference>` extension.

Setup
=====

.. include:: /reuse/tutorial/setup.rst

.. important::

    Before we go any further, for this tutorial we'll need the most recent
    version of Rockcraft on the edge channel. Run ``sudo snap refresh rockcraft
    --channel latest/edge`` to switch to it.

Finally, create a new directory for this tutorial and go inside it:

.. code-block:: bash

   mkdir expressjs-hello-world
   cd expressjs-hello-world

Create the ExpressJS application
================================

Let's start by creating the "Hello, world" ExpressJS application that we'll use
throughout this tutorial.

Create the ExpressJS application using the express-generator:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:init-app]
    :end-before: [docs:init-app-end]
    :dedent: 2

> Run the ExpressJS application from within the ``app/`` directory using
> .. code-block:: bash
> 
>     npm start

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the ExpressJS application from within the ``app/`` directory using

.. code-block:: bash

    npm start
```

.. _build-a-rock-for-an-expressjs-application:

Build a rock for an ExpressJS application
-----------------------------------------

In this tutorial, we'll create a simple ExpressJS application and learn how to
containerise it in a rock with Rockcraft's
:ref:`expressjs-framework <expressjs-framework-reference>` extension.

Setup
=====

> .. include:: /reuse/tutorial/setup.rst

Reviewer 3: For the Docker installation, after the newgroup command a new terminal is spawned. So if someone copies the entire block and executes it at once, the following commands won't run

Author: That seems like it should be fixed as a separate PR, would you like to create an issue for it against this repository please?

.. important::

    Before we go any further, for this tutorial we'll need the most recent
    version of Rockcraft on the edge channel. Run ``sudo snap refresh rockcraft
    --channel latest/edge`` to switch to it.

Finally, create a new directory for this tutorial and go inside it:

.. code-block:: bash

   mkdir expressjs-hello-world
   cd expressjs-hello-world

Create the ExpressJS application
================================

Let's start by creating the "Hello, world" ExpressJS application that we'll use
throughout this tutorial.

Create the ExpressJS application using the express-generator:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:init-app]
    :end-before: [docs:init-app-end]
    :dedent: 2

Run the ExpressJS application from within the ``app/`` directory using

.. code-block:: bash

    npm start

to verify that it works.

> Test the ExpressJS application by using curl to send a request to the root

Author: Added the note to render in browser, thank you :)

> Test the ExpressJS application by using ``curl`` to send a request to the root

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test the ExpressJS application by using curl to send a request to the root
```

Author: Just out of curiosity, may I know when to use wrap things inside `` `` and when not to please? :D

Reviewer: Great question! The overall goal is to reduce the amount of extra decoration, like inline code, in text.

We're planning on adding this convention to the style guide:

- When guiding a specific _usage_ of a command, or discussing the command itself, use inline code.
- When discussing or simply _identifying_ a product/project by name, use its product name.

It's about product recognition and identity. curl is a project/product, the same as Charmcraft, Ubuntu, Node.js. It might have originally started as a command, but it's since become a standalone app that users consume, update, and think about on its own merits.

Consider these paragraphs:

- "I'm having a hard time understanding the build process in Charmcraft. Can you help?"
- "When I run `charmcraft pack`, it throws an error. Can you help?"

Author: Thank you for the explanation!

endpoint. We'll need a new terminal for this -- if we're using Multipass, run
``multipass shell rock-dev`` to get another terminal:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:curl-expressjs]
    :end-before: [docs:curl-expressjs-end]
    :dedent: 2

The ExpressJS application should respond with a ``Welcome to Express`` HTML web

> page.

Author: We would be diverging from the patterns used in other frameworks with this change as well (e.g. django.rst, fastapi.rst,...etc). Would this be intended?

> page.

Reviewer: Correct. We can clean up the others later. Apologies if that feels like an out-of-scope change, but I've recently had more time to dedicate to these tutorials than before.

The application looks good, so let's stop it for now by pressing :kbd:`Ctrl` +
:kbd:`C`.

> Pack the ExpressJS application into a rock

Author: Good point, i'll remove any `node_modules` copied over before installing the application.

==========================================

> First, we'll need a ``rockcraft.yaml`` file. Rockcraft will automate its
> creation and tailoring for a ExpressJS application by using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we'll need a ``rockcraft.yaml`` project file. Rockcraft will automate
its creation and tailoring for a ExpressJS application by using the
```

``expressjs-framework`` profile:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:create-rockcraft-yaml]
    :end-before: [docs:create-rockcraft-yaml-end]
    :dedent: 2

> The ``rockcraft.yaml`` file will automatically be created in the project's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project file will automatically be created in the
```

Open it in a text editor and check that the ``name`` is
``expressjs-hello-world``. Ensure that ``platforms`` includes the architecture
of the host. For example, if the host uses the ARM architecture, include
``arm64`` in ``platforms``.

For the sake of this tutorial, we'll initially switch the base from bare to
ubuntu@24.04. We will switch it back to bare later on when we chisel the rock.

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:change-base-init]
    :end-before: [docs:change-base-init-end]
    :dedent: 2

.. note::
    For this tutorial, we'll use the ``name`` ``expressjs-hello-world`` and
    assume we're running on the  ``amd64`` platform. Check the architecture of
    the system using ``dpkg --print-architecture``.

    The ``name``, ``version`` and ``platform`` all influence the name of the
    generated ``.rock`` file.

> Pack the rock:

Author: This is an issue outside of the PR, will raise an issue against the repo :)

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:pack]
    :end-before: [docs:pack-end]
    :dedent: 2

.. note::

    Depending on the network, this step can take a couple of minutes to finish.

    ``ROCKCRAFT_ENABLE_EXPERIMENTAL_EXTENSIONS`` is required whilst the
    ExpressJS extension is experimental.

Once Rockcraft has finished packing the ExpressJS rock, we'll find a new file in
the project's working directory (an `OCI <OCI_image_spec_>`_ archive) with
the ``.rock`` extension:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:ls-rock]
    :end-before: [docs:ls-rock-end]
    :dedent: 2

The created rock is about 100MB in size. We will reduce its size later in this
tutorial.

.. note::
    If we changed the ``name`` or ``version`` in ``rockcraft.yaml`` or are not
    on an ``amd64`` platform, the name of the ``.rock`` file will be
    different.

    The size of the rock may vary depending on factors like the architecture
    we are building on and the packages installed at the time of packing.

Run the ExpressJS rock with Docker
==================================

> We already have the rock as an `OCI <OCI_image_spec_>`_ archive. Now we

Reviewer: We don't need to link to it twice:

```suggestion
We already have the rock as an OCI archive. Now we
```

need to load it into Docker:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:skopeo-copy]
    :end-before: [docs:skopeo-copy-end]
    :dedent: 2

Check that the image was successfully loaded into Docker:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:docker-images]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-images-end]
    :dedent: 2

The output should list the ExpressJS container image, along with its tag, ID and
size:

.. terminal::

    REPOSITORY              TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED       SIZE
    expressjs-hello-world   0.1       30c7e5aed202   2 weeks ago   304MB

.. note::
    The size of the image reported by Docker is the uncompressed size which is
    larger than the size of the compressed ``.rock`` file.

Now we're finally ready to run the rock and test the containerised ExpressJS
application:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:docker-run]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-run-end]
    :dedent: 2

> Use the same ``curl`` command as before to send a request to the ExpressJS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the same curl command as before to send a request to the ExpressJS
```

application's root endpoint which is running inside the container:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:curl-expressjs-rock]
    :end-before: [docs:curl-expressjs-rock-end]
    :dedent: 2

The ExpressJS application should again respond with the ``Welcome to Express``

> HTML.

Author: We're interacting with ExpressJS service via `curl` CLI interface - we wouldn't necessarily be seeing the page but rather the HTML response. Would this be still viable?

> HTML.

Reviewer: I see what you're saying.

curl returns any web resource in the terminal as text. A URI that serves a `content="text/html"` resource is synonymous with the idea of "web page". With that understanding, I think it's fine to still call it a page in this context.

To me, saying it returns "\<page title\> HTML" feels like we'll lead the user to do something HTML-related.

As a real-world corollary, one would say "I read _A Brief History of Time_ as an e-book", not "I read _A Brief History of Time_ as an EPUB file".

View the application logs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When deploying the ExpressJS rock, we can always get the application logs via
:ref:`pebble_explanation_page`:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:get-logs]
    :end-before: [docs:get-logs-end]
    :dedent: 2

As a result, Pebble will give us the logs for the
``expressjs`` service running inside the container.
We should expect to see something similar to this:

.. terminal::

    app@0.0.0 start
    node ./bin/www
    GET / 200 62.934 ms - 170

We can also choose to follow the logs by using the ``-f`` option with the
``pebble logs`` command above. To stop following the logs, press :kbd:`Ctrl` +
:kbd:`C`.

Cleanup
~~~~~~~

Now we have a fully functional rock for a ExpressJS application! This concludes
the first part of this tutorial, so we'll stop the container and remove the
respective image for now:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:stop-docker]
    :end-before: [docs:stop-docker-end]
    :dedent: 2

> Chisel the rock

Author: Then I will redo the entire tutorial to match the style of bare base extensions, i.e. go, which will take extended time to finish. Perhaps I revert this PR as draft again until that is done. I can reopen this next week.

> Chisel the rock

Author: The tutorial is updated to use bare base as default and hence excludes the chiselling step, following the Go tutorial.

Chisel the rock
===============

This is an optional but recommended step, especially if we're looking to
deploy the rock into a production environment. With :ref:`chisel_explanation`

> we can produce lean and production-ready rocks by getting rid of all the
> contents that are not needed for the ExpressJS application to run. This results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we can produce lean and production-ready rocks by chipping away all the
contents that the application doesn't need to run. This will result
```

in a much smaller rock with a reduced attack surface.

> .. note::
>     It is recommended to run chiselled images in production. For development,
>     we may prefer non-chiselled images as they will include additional
>     development tooling (such as for debugging).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: May I know the justification for removing this part please?

Reviewer: Tutorials, according to Diataxis, walk the user down a single path. It's very strict about this, directing us to avoid any unnecessary explanation and forbidding us from branching or offering alternative paths.

My perspective on notes is that they're optional information. And since this discusses a completely different concern, debugging, I found it was a diversion.

The first step towards chiselling the rock is to ensure we are using a
``bare`` :ref:`base <bases_explanation>`.
In ``rockcraft.yaml``, change the ``base`` to ``bare`` and add
``build-base: ubuntu@24.04``:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:change-base]
    :end-before: [docs:change-base-end]
    :dedent: 2

.. note::
    The ``sed`` command replaces the current ``base`` in ``rockcraft.yaml`` with

>     the ``bare`` base. Note that ``build-base`` is also required when using the

Reviewer: I don't see a step where we instruct the user to add `build-base`. Should we include one?

Author: This is in the `code/expressjs/task.yaml` code snippet referred to by the 
```
:start-after: [docs:change-base]
:end-before: [docs:change-base-end]
```
right above.

Reviewer: You're right – the order of the paragraphs mixed me up.

> .. note::
>     The ``sed`` command replaces the current ``base`` in ``rockcraft.yaml`` with
>     the ``bare`` base. Note that ``build-base`` is also required when using the
>     ``bare`` base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sed command sets the current ``base`` key in ``rockcraft.yaml`` with
``bare``. When using the bare base, we also need the ``build-base`` key.
```

So that we can compare the size after chiselling, open the ``rockcraft.yaml``
file and change the ``version`` (e.g. to ``0.1-chiselled``). Pack the rock with

> the new ``bare`` :ref:`base <bases_explanation>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the new bare base:
```

Author: Bare base tutorial has been removed in favor of matching the style in `go` tutorial.

Author: (the default starts with bare base)

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:chisel-pack]
    :end-before: [docs:chisel-pack-end]
    :dedent: 2

As before, verify that the new rock was created:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:ls-bare-rock]
    :end-before: [docs:ls-bare-rock-end]
    :dedent: 2

> We'll verify that the new ExpressJS rock is now approximately **15% smaller**
> in size! And that's just because of the simple change of ``base``.

Reviewer: We must be cautious with superlative statements.

```suggestion
The updated ExpressJS rock is a respectable 15% smaller
in size. We achieved that from a simple change of ``base``.
```

> And the functionality is still the same. As before, we can confirm this by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The functionality of the new rock is the same. Let's confirm this by
```

> running the rock with Docker
> 
> .. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
>     :language: text
>     :start-after: [docs:docker-run-chisel]
>     :end-before: [docs:docker-run-chisel-end]
>     :dedent: 2
> 
> and then using the same ``curl`` request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
running the rock with Docker:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:docker-run-chisel]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-run-chisel-end]
    :dedent: 2

And using the same curl request:
```

Reviewer: It would likely be simpler to combine these steps.

Author: Chiselling step has been removed in favor of the `bare` base default :)

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:curl-expressjs-bare-rock]
    :end-before: [docs:curl-expressjs-bare-rock-end]
    :dedent: 2

The ExpressJS application should still respond with

> ``Welcome to Express`` HTML.

Author: Same comment as before, we're interacting via CLI and we would be seeing the HTML rather than the page.

Cleanup
~~~~~~~

> And that's it. We can now stop the container and remove the corresponding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can now stop the container and remove the corresponding
```

Author: Updated, thank you :)

image:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: bash
    :start-after: [docs:stop-docker-chisel]
    :end-before: [docs:stop-docker-chisel-end]
    :dedent: 2

.. _update-expressjs-application:

Update the ExpressJS application
================================

> As a final step, let's update our application. For example,
> we want to add a new ``/time`` endpoint which returns the current time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our final task, let's update our application. As an example,
let's add a new ``/time`` endpoint that returns the current time.
```

Start by creating the ``app/routes/time.js`` file in a text editor and paste the
code from the snippet below:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/time.js

>     :language: javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :caption: time.js
    :language: javascript
```

    :language: javascript

> Place the code snippet below in ``app.js`` under routes registration section.

Author: Added `app/` prefix (`app/app.js`)

> It will register the new ``/time`` endpoint:

Author: Updated, thank you :)

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/time_app.js

>     :language: javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :caption: app.js
    :language: javascript
```

    :start-after: [docs:append-lines]
    :end-before: [docs:append-lines-end]

> Since we are creating a new version of the application, open the
> ``rockcraft.yaml`` file and change the ``version`` (e.g. to ``0.2``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we are creating a new version of the application, set
``version: '0.2'`` in the project file.
```

.. note::

    ``rockcraft pack`` will create a new image with the updated code even if we
    don't change the version. It is recommended to change the version whenever
    we make changes to the application in the image.

Pack and run the rock using similar commands as before:

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:docker-run-update]
    :end-before: [docs:docker-run-update-end]
    :dedent: 2

> .. note::
> 
>     Note that the resulting ``.rock`` file will now be named differently, as
>     its new version will be part of the filename.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting ``.rock`` file will be named differently, as
its new version will be part of the filename.
```

> Finally, use ``curl`` to send a request to the ``/time`` endpoint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, use curl to send a request to the ``/time`` endpoint:
```

.. literalinclude:: code/expressjs/task.yaml
    :language: text
    :start-after: [docs:curl-time]
    :end-before: [docs:curl-time-end]
    :dedent: 2

The updated application should respond with the current date and time (e.g.
``Fri Jan 10 2025 03:11:44 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)``).

> .. note::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. tip::
```

Author: This also isn't aligned with other documentation for the extensions, shall I change all the others to match the styles?

Reviewer: No need – the rest of the team can update them later.

    If you are getting a ``404`` for the ``/time`` endpoint, check the
    :ref:`troubleshooting-expressjs` steps below.

> Cleanup
> ~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Final cleanup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Author: This also isn't aligned with other documentation for the extensions, shall I change all the others to match the styles?

Reviewer 2: We can make the change to the other tutorials in a follow-up PR :)

Author: Updated this section of the tutorial, thank you :)
